+++
title = 'Site Search'
date = 2025-03-31T15:29:14+02:00
author = "oxypteros"
draft = false
license = "CC0"
github_edit = true
+++
{{< status-card TITLE="Requirements" TYPE="warning">}}
If you want to use site search *locally* or deploy your site via direct *file upload*, **Node.js** must be installed on your system. 
If it's not installed, follow the [Node.js installation guide.](/node-install) before proceeding with this guide.
{{< /status-card >}}
Alpha is set up to support on-site search function by incorporating the static search library [Pagefind](https://pagefind.app)

## General Instructions
To enable site search in Alpha:
1. In `params.toml` (`config/_default/params.toml`), set: 
```toml
pagefind_enabled = true # Default is false
```
2. Update your build command to include Pagefind indexing:
```bash
hugo --gc --minify && npx pagefind --site public
```

## Deployment on Cloudflare Pages
If deploying on Cloudflare Pages:
1. Select your Cloudflare Pages project and open the **Settings** .
1. Edit the **Build configuration** and set the **Build command** to:  
```bash
hugo --gc --minify && npx pagefind --site public
```
1. Click **Save**, then re-deploy your project.

## Deployment on Vercel
For Vercel deployment:
1. Open your project’s **Settings**.
1. Select **Build and Deployment** under **Project Settings**.
1. In **Framework Settings**, choose **Override** and set the **Build Command**:
```bash
hugo --gc --minify && npx pagefind --site public
```
1. Click **Save**, then re-deploy your project.

## Deployment on Netlify
To set up Pagefind on Netlify:
1. Select your site
2. Go to **Site configuration** --> **Build and Deploy**.
3. Under **Build & Deploy Settings**, find **Build Settings** and click **Configure**.
4. Change the **Build command** to: 
```bash
hugo --gc --minify && npx pagefind --site public
```
5. Click **Save** and then re-deploy.

## Notes
- Pagefind scans the HTML pages generated by Hugo in the `/public` folder and creates an index of terms from your site’s content. 
- Pagefind only indexes content when the command `npx pagefind --site public` is executed. If you update your site’s content and deploy manually, you must run this command again to update the search index. Otherwise, the changes won’t be included in search results.